



TODO Working Group                                              S. Smith
Internet-Draft                                             ProSapien LLC
Intended status: Informational                           12 October 2021
Expires: 15 April 2022


                Key Event Receipt Infrastructure (KERI)
                        draft-ssmith-keri-latest

Abstract

   An identity system based secure overlay for the Internet is
   presented.  This is based on a Key Event Receipt Infrastructure
   (KERI) or the [KERI] protocol.  This includes a primary root-of-trust
   in self-certifying identifiers (SCIDs).  It presents a formalism for
   Autonomic Identifiers (AIDs) and Autonomic Namespaces (ANs).  They
   are part of an Autonomic Identity System (AIS).  This system uses the
   design principle of minimally sufficient means to provide a candidate
   trust spanning layer for the internet.  Associated with this system
   is a decentralized key management infrastructure (DKMI).  The primary
   root-of-trust are self-certifying identifiers that are strongly bound
   at issuance to a cryptographic signing (public, private) key-pair.
   These are self-contained until/unless control needs to be transferred
   to a new key-pair.  In that event an append only chained key-event
   log of signed transfer statements provides end verifiable control
   provenance.  This makes intervening operational infrastructure
   replaceable because the event logs may be served up by any
   infrastructure including ambient infrastructure.  End verifiable logs
   on ambient infrastructure enables ambient verifiability (verifiable
   by anyone, anywhere, at anytime).  The primary key management
   operation is key rotation (transference) via a novel key pre-rotation
   scheme.  Two primary trust modalities motivated the design, these are
   a direct (one-to-one) mode and an indirect (one-to-any) mode.  The
   indirect mode depends on witnessed key event receipt logs (KERL) as a
   secondary root-of-trust for validating events.  This gives rise to
   the acronym KERI for key event receipt infrastructure.  In the direct
   mode, the identity controller establishes control via verified
   signatures of the controlling key-pair.  The indirect mode extends
   that trust basis with witnessed key event receipt logs (KERL) for
   validating events.  The security and accountability guarantees of
   indirect mode are provided by KA2CE or KERI's Agreement Algorithm for
   Control Establishment among a set of witnesses.  The KA2CE approach
   may be much more performant and scalable than more complex approaches
   that depend on a total ordering distributed consensus ledger.
   Nevertheless KERI may employ a distributed consensus ledger when
   other considerations make it the best choice.  The KERI approach to
   DKMI allows more granular composition.  Moreover, because KERI is
   event streamed it enables DKMI that operates in-stride with data
   events streaming applications such as web 3.0, IoT, and others where
   performance and scalability are more important.  The core KERI engine
   is identifier independent.  This makes KERI a candidate for a
   universal portable DKMI.

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/WebOfTrust/ietf-keri.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 15 April 2022.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Simplified BSD License text
   as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Security Considerations
   4.  IANA Considerations
   5.  References
     5.1.  Normative References
     5.2.  Informative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   The major motivation for this work is to provide a secure
   decentralized foundation of trust for the Internet as a trustable
   spanning layer.  A major flaw in the original design of the Internet
   Protocol was that it had security layer (i.e.  Session or
   Presentation layers).  There was no built-in mechanism for security.
   Specifically the IP packet header includes a source address field to
   indicate the IP address of the device that sent the packet.  Because
   the source address may be forged, a recipient may not know if the
   packet was sent by an imposter.  Anyone can forge an IP (Internet
   Protocol) packet.  This means that security mechanisms for the
   Internet must be overlaid (bolted-on).  [KERI] provides such a
   security overlay.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

4.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8174>.

5.2.  Informative References

   [KERI]     Smith, S., "Key Event Receipt Infrastructure (KERI)",
              2021, <https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.02143>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   S. Smith
   ProSapien LLC

   Email: sam@prosapien.com
